Write up

MechaCar_mpg Data

From the MechaCar_mpg dataset a multiple linear regression model for mpg was created

The formula:
mpg = 6.27(vehicle length) + 0(vehicle weight) + 0.07(spoiler angle) + 3.55(ground clearance) - 3.41(All Wheel Drive) - 104

The generated summary statistics p-values, Pr(>|t|), for the variables show that in the dataset the variables that have a non-random amount of variance to mpg values are:

- vehicle length at 2.60e^-12
- ground clearance at 5.21e^-8
- (Intercept) at 5.08e^-8

The above values are listed as non-random amount of variance as they are lower than the 0.05 significance level.

The slopes of the multiple regression level are not zero for vehicle length, ground clearance and AWD as the p-val of our linear regression, 5.35e^-11 is lower than the 0.05 significance level.

From the r-squared value of 0.71 indicates that about 71% of all mpg predicitions will be accurate indicating that our model can somewhat effectively predict mpg of MechaCar prototypes.


Suspension_Coil Data

Summary:

The data from Suspension_Coil set is normally distributed around the mean with a median of 1500 and a mean of 1498.78.
The standard deviation of the sample distribution is 8.73.
The variance of the sample distribution is 76.23 which is under the 100 lbs per inch.
Thus the suspension coil data meets the design specs required for the MechaCar.


T-Test:

Null Hypothesis:There is no significant difference between sample mean and population mean at the 0.05 significant level.
Alternative Hypothesis:There is a significant difference between sample mean and population mean at the 0.05 significant level.

Population Mean: 1500psi

From the T-test, we obtained a p-value of 0.5117 which is greater than our significance level.
Thus there is insufficient data to reject the null hypothesis.
Therefore the population the population mean and dataset mean are statistically similar.



Design Own Study

A high fuel efficieny appears to be implied as a major selling point for the Mechacars.
Thus we would need to test if the prototype vehilces are more fuel efficient that other vehicles on market.
To solve this we need to collect a range of fuel efficiencies from our comparable vehicles on the market and compare them to the fuel efficiency levels for the Mechacar prototype.

Assumptions we need for our data is that the data is numerical and continuous, each is randomly selected, data sample is sufficiently large, and the variances should be similar.

The null hypothesis would state that there is no significant difference between the Mechacar mpg and the similar competitors' mpg.
The alternative hypothesis would be that the mpg of Mechachar is greater than the similar competitors' mpg.

We would use a paried t-test to compare the data.
X would be the Mechacar prototype vehicle mpg dataset, with Y as the competitors' mpg.
Paird would be set to "True".

If the resulting p-value is smaller than 0.05 we would have enough to reject the null hypothesis.
This would mean that the Mechacar Prototype vehicle will have a better MPG.